# React.js

## General concepts

> - React is a client-side JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
> - It helps you building modern user interfaces for the web.
> - Just with JavaScript you have to write everything, imperative (every instruction) approach, reinventing the wheel over and over again, which is not quite so good.
> - It makes building the interfaces easier in an declarative (not all the instructions) way.
> - With react you create single page applications because it controls all the elements of the page, even routes, this drives to a better user experience.
> - Some features like routing are added via packages.

## Similar libraries and frameworks

> - Angular: a component-based UI framework with complete features (TypeScript).
> - Vue.js: Between Angular and React, is a component-based UI framework with most of the core features needed for UI development.

## Roadmap

- Basics and foundation (key features)
  - Components and building UIs
    - [React Basics and Working With Components](./002-react-003.md)
  - Working with events and data: `props` and `state`
  - Styling React apps and components
  - Introduction to `React Hooks`
- Advanced concepts (building for production)
  - Side Effects: `refs` and more `React Hooks`
  - React's Context API and Redux
  - Forms, http requests and `Custom Hooks`
  - Routing, Deployment, NextJS and more
- Summaries and refresehers (optimize your time)
  - [JavaScript refresher](./002-react-002.md)
  - ReactJS summary module

## Setting your environment

- [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- Keep your code clean:
  - Format Document Keyboard Shortcut `⇧ ⌥ F`
  - Prettier
    - Default formatter
    - Format on save
  - Material Icon Theme
    - Change the file icons
